Java Virtual Machine (JVM) generates 3 critical artifacts that are useful for optimizing the performance and troubleshooting production problems. Those artifacts are:

1. Garbage collection (GC) log
2. Thread Dump
3. Heap Dump

Garbage collection -

1. How to generate GC Log?
	You can generate garbage collection log, by passing following JVM arguments:
	-Xlog:gc*:file=<file-path>
	file-path: is the location where Garbage Collection log file will be written

Tools for analyzing garbage collection logs - HP Jmeter, IBM GC & Memory visualizer

Thread dump-
What is a thread dump?
	Thread dump is snapshot of all threads running in the application at point in time. It contains all the information about each thread in the application such as: thread state, thread Id, native Id, thread name, stack trace, priority

Where is Thread dump used?
	Thread dumps are primarily used for troubleshooting production problems such as CPU spikes, unresponsiveness in the application, poor response time, hung threads, high memory consumption.
	
Generating thread dump - jstack -l  <pid> > <file-path>

thread dump analysis tools: fastThread, Samurai, IBM Thread & Monitor analyzer, Visual VM


Heap dump
a) What is Heap dump? 
 Heap dump is a snapshot of your application’s memory in a point in time. It contains information such as what are the objects in memory, what values do they carry, what is their size, what other objects do they reference.
 
Where is Heap dump used?
 Heap dumps are primarily used for troubleshooting memory related, OutOfMemoryError problems.

d) How to generate Heap dump?
 Heap dump can be captured from the running application using 8 different options. Most common option to take heap dump is to use the ‘jmap’ tool. jmap tool is shipped in JDK_HOME\bin folder. Here is the command that you need to issue to capture:

jmap -dump:format=b,
file=<file-path> <pid> 
where

pid: is the Java Process Id, whose heap dump should be captured

file-path: is the file path where heap dump will be written in to

What Tools are used to analyze Heap dump?
	Here are the most widely used heap dump analysis tools: Eclipse MAT, HeapHero, JVisualVM.